okay we're just going to break into that
now and uh we're going to cross uh live
to the UN where
ambassadors from Arab nations are
holding a joint news conference about
the uh situation in Gaza we're going to
listen to that in just a moment reminder
that about 18,000 Palestinians have been
killed in Gaza since October let's
listen
YC group and Arab group presented the
resolution uh through United Arab
Emirate and this resolution got 13 vote
and has been uh uh has been uh uh voted
by against by United States uh we decide
to request the reception of the 10th
emergency uh emergency special session
in general assembly and we meet today
the P President of General Assembly and
it has decided that this session will
resume this afternoon at 3:00 and we are
here to to give you some information
about the the the the latest ongoing
situation in Palestine and we are what
we are going to do in this special
emergency session and I give the floor
right now to Ambassador Riyad in order
to give you more detail on the situation
have the floor uh thank you very much
brother cidi Muhammad the chair of the
OIC uh as we told you last week we will
keep you informed and we will keep
meeting with you and we are doing that
uh after last Friday when we had an
unprecedented number of co-sponsors to
the draft resolution from outside the
council 103
countries uh unfortunately that draft
was defeated by casting a veto in spite
of the fact that 13 voted in
favor immediately after that we had
consultations among the groups uh
co-sponsoring this effort and uh
decided uh to send a letter to the
president of the general assembly from
the chair of the Arab group and the
chair of the
OIC uh uh requesting the resumption of
the 10th emergency session and we are
very grateful that the president of the
general assembly uh cooperated with us
very quickly uh during the weekend and
with his staff and circulated as you
know a letter to the membership of the
United Nations during the weekend
indicating that he will be convening the
resuming the 10th emergency session
Tuesday after afternoon
today we also
uh uh
uploaded uh the uh draft resolution
which I am sure that you are now have
seen it uh and uh we are collecting
co-sponsorship to that draft resolution
and then the number is very high it
could very easily you know uh approach
the 100 but more importantly is the
countries that will vote in favor so we
are in full mobilization mode we will
have another emergency meeting for the
OIC group because all the Arab countries
are members of the OIC so it is a
combined you know meeting at 11:00 in
order to strategize for full
mobilization of having the largest
number possible of countries voting in
favor and it looks promising our effort
is to bring an immediate ceasefire I
call it a humanitarian ceasefire as the
SG calls it is okay uh and in our
resolution the one in the security
Council which was defeated and the one
that is before the general assembly for
voting on it uh this afternoon it also
refers to the letter of the SG invoking
artic 99 in which he asked among other
things for an immediate humanitarian
ceasefire There is almost a global
consensus on that call uh some of us
were able to see even a demonstration in
front of the US Mission with a huge sign
calling for a ceasefire now so this is
where we are we had a meeting uh uh this
morning with the president of the
general assembly was was a very
productive meeting we talked about the
details of how the session will
unfold uh the voting on the draft
resolution will start at the beginning
because we anticipate that there will be
a long list of
speakers the subject is urgent the fact
that we are meeting on Tuesday after the
veto on Friday it indicates that the
situation is dire and we need action and
we need it as quickly as possible so
therefore we are not going to have a
long debate and then vote at the end
which is customary but now we are going
to dis you know vote on the draft
resolution at the beginning and then you
know to continue with the debate and the
president of the general assembly
informed us that when we have a spell
over it will be taken on Friday when the
general assembly very appropriately will
be uh you know uh commemorating and
celebrating the 75th anniversary of the
Declaration of Human Rights so that the
situation is a massive tragedy for human
rights particularly for children and
women in the Gaza Strip so the
continuation of the debate during that
appropriate time is very ve very
befitting now uh as you probably know
there might be some amendments from
those who are still insisting to
politicize the subject and they are not
satisfied with everything else including
what the SG says and what lazarini and
others say they insist to try to
politicize a humanitarian resolution uh
we are determined that we will not allow
such amendments to succeed we will
oppose them we will will defeat these
amendments we were hoping that no
amendment to be introduced and to vote
up and down on the draft resolution
itself which calls mainly for a
humanitarian
ceasefire uh at the end of the day we
believe we will prevail with almost the
entire International Community in
calling for a humanitarian ceasefire as
the Secretary General is calling for as
all un agencies working on the
humanitarian field are calling for as
the Red Cross the International Red
Cross in which the president will be in
the occupied Palestinian territory again
uh uh you know in the next few days uh
calling for uh let me just give also a
small footnote we are grateful for the
effort of our brothers and sisters uh
from United AR Arab Emirate led by uh
Her Excellency uh lenina nbe who came up
with a brilliant idea as I said before
and invited a large number of Security
Council Members they visited Rafa and
the Alish yesterday they listened to
briefings from Mr
lazarini and Mr Tor wiland along with
our minister of health and our minister
of social welfare and Senior officials
from the Palestinian and the Egyptian
red crescent uh I I don't know if my
brother
Muhammad has some details to share about
that visit but we are waiting for the
readout from you know uh Ambassador Lana
nus uh whom should be here I think in a
day or two along with her colleagues who
um made that trip to uh Rafa that is a
significant trip that is a gesture that
the great majority of members in the
security Council who voted in favor of
the ceasefire made that trip it's
symbolic but it is very important and we
appreciate that uh if you have questions
you can ask them yes thanks Ambassador
um when you had the last vote in the
general assembly in October there were
14 countries that opposed uh the
humanitarian truce and 44 that abstained
do you think seeing how the situation
has deteriorated in these weeks since
the last vote that you will bring some
of those uh persuade them to change
their position to vote for the
humanitarian ceasefire and what will a
large number say to the International
Community a large number of support uh
and do you think it will send a message
to
Washington I think it will send a
message to Washington and to others you
forgot to mention the most important
number which is the
121 actually
122 that you know were supportive of uh
that draft resolution our
expectation that this time it will be
higher than that number and we hope that
it will be higher by a significant
number but we don't want to go to to go
ahead of ourselves let's wait and see
how the general assembly would react let
me also add
if you compare the draft resolution
before the general assembly in
comparison to the one on 26 of October
the resolution that you refer to uh
number one in this
resolution it calls for a ceasefire
humanitarian ceasefire while the other
one it talks about steps that lead
eventually to a secession of hostilities
so that that is a significant difference
the other one so that if some of you to
ask me the question is it binding or not
binding the language that is in it it it
Demands a ceasefire and that is the
language that was used in the security
Council demanding from anybody from the
United Nations whether the general
assembly or the security Council it is
much poor more powerful than calling for
and therefore it should be looked at as
binding in that sense definitely if the
great majority of the general assembly
demands an immediate humanitarian
ceasefire there is no explanation to
that sentence or that provision other
than it is binding and Israel has to
abide by it and those who are shielding
and protecting Israel until now should
also look at it this way and therefore
act accordingly Mr Ambassador uh one of
the Amendments uh uh addresses the issue
of um uh
detainees uh or hostages but in the same
time we see that Israel has um detained
a lot of Palestinians during this
operation in Gaza and also in the West
Bank so why don't you also add a
language that addresses this issue
because a lot of Palestinians have been
detained you know there are many other
uh very important elements that could be
uh added to any resolution but we will
not lose focus from the most important
issue which is
demanding an immediate humanitarian
ceasefire now that is the most important
issue if we are derailed from that
objective and start trying to amend in
this direction on and that direction and
politicizing the uh uh draft resolution
then we will not reach an agreement the
Security Council is a good example the
security Council tried several times to
agree on a language but because of the
politicization they did not succeed the
only time they succeeded in
2712 when they made it completely
humanitarian resolution they succeeded
so for those those who want to learn
from the behavior in the security
Council and in the International
Community Common Sense would say avoid
controversial issues avoid naming names
and concentrate on the demand of
stopping this war stopping this Carnage
saving lives saving the lives of our
children in the Gaza Strip and the wom
and the civilians and the vulnerables
this these are the most important
elements everything else we could deal
with it later on but that's not the time
to deal with it we need to stop this war
and we need to stop it now as the
Secretary General
indicated so that un you know uh
agencies can perform the the noble duty
of reaching everyone in the Gaza Strip
and giving them humanitarian assistance
to save
lives those who were kill killed May God
you know take care of them and he will
but those who are still alive it is our
duty to save them and to keep them alive
so that's why we will not lose focus
from the main uh subject and all those
who are trying to be clever or blunt in
terms of derailing us from this you know
objective will be defeated although we
appeal to them not to play that game and
let us vote under draft resolution as is
the essence of it is immediate
humanitarian ceasefire the last question
thank you ambass aler English my
question for you is you've mentioned
that the resolution holds stronger
language and you're hoping that this
will put more pressure on Washington to
lead to what will be a stop to the
fighting what is your message to the
Palestinian people who worry that
similar to previous resolutions Israel
might ignore the resolution currently at
the ga today the Palestinian people are
so angry and frustrated and no one
should blame them and if they are upset
and angry with all of us and the UN and
the International System no one should
blame them they are right in that
outrage and anger when you have now we
are approaching 20,000 Palestinians
killed 70% of them children and women
and not counting those who are under the
rebels and more than 50 50,000 injured
and 2/3 of the buildings in the Gaza
Strip destroyed and cannot be used for
living in in such you know facilities
and all the hospitals are almost you
know uh cannot function they're out of
work and also that people do not have
food they do not have water they don't
have medicine we have so many relatives
we call them and we ask about X or Y and
Z and they say they die and we say why
were they killed from bombardment some
were killed by bombardment others they
are dying because of lack of medicine
and so on and so forth the tragedy is so
beyond comprehension so that if they are
angry and frustrated and they curse all
of us beginning with me I understand and
they are right and we are wrong our duty
is to try to save the lives who are
still alive by having this res
resolution adopted and by forcing Israel
to comply with it and those who are
shielding Israel to comply with the
global consensus calling for uh
ceasefire Ambassador Riyad manur the
permanent Observer of Palestine to the
UN he said quote our effort is to bring
an immediate ceasefire the situation is
dire Christ joins us live now from the
UN Krist what can we make of that
address well this is Ambassador Riad
Monsour of the Palestinian Authority
attempting to Rally support for a
resolution that will be put to a vote
before the general assembly later today
uh a resolution very similar to one that
was vetoed in the security Council by
the United States he said that he is in
full mobilization mode and he was
appearing ing there with Arab
ambassadors and ambassadors from Islamic
countries as well who've called for this
vote in order to build up pressure for
an immediate humanitarian ceasefire in
Gaza noting that it's what the Secretary
General of the United Nations has called
for uh noting that the humanitarian
situation humanitarian deliveries are
not able to keep up with the growing
demands of the people in Gaza who are uh
suffering from a lack of food and
Medicine uh this is the attempt to show
Israel and the United States that there
is global support for this humanitarian
ceasefire and they're hoping to get uh
more than the
103 co-sponsors that they already had
for the security Council resolution in
the general assembly saying that they
were optimistic that a vast majority of
countries would sign on it would take
two-thirds majority for the resolution
to pass and I should say that there are
some uh amendments being proposed
one uh by the United States which
complained about the uh Security Council
resolution that it didn't specifically
condem Hamas for the attacks of October
7th some language uh to that effect uh
being proposed by the United States as
an amendment uh that will be voted on
before the full vote in the general
assembly later today however uh the
Ambassador saying that the most
important thing was to keep it simple uh
to focus on the need for a ceas fire and
get as many countries on board as soon
as
possible Christen slimy thanks very much
indeed for that